- [Instructor] Rest is a common HTTP based technique
for serving an externally hosted
application programming interface or API.
Let us build a rest API connection end point together.
We will initialize the lesson files for this lesson
using get checkout 04_04B.
For several code lessons now,
we have relied on a Java util timer implementation
embedded in one of our service classes
in order to simulate an HTTP rest API call and response
so that we could focus on learning other things.
In this lesson, we will transform that mock setup
into a real HTTP interaction
backed by our own applications embedded tomcat web server
which is provided by spring boot.
Notice here in line 39 of our status monitor service,
we have a timer task that ultimately puts a message
onto an API input channel down here in line 52.
This message makes it sway from there
through the core application message pipeline
that is specified in status monitor, dot XML.
Let's pipe in to that same API input channel
in this lesson using an HTTP gateway configuration.
Let's navigate to HTTP-API.XML.
This is where this particular message flow
will be configured.
And the first thing I want to do is draw your attention
to the schema version here in line 12 of this XML file.
Now typically, when you specify a schema,
you don't really need to specify that version number
because you typically get the most recent one
when you don't specify a version number.
However, in this particular case, I did notice
that I needed to specify the five dash two version
of the spring integration HTTP schema
in order to get the latest version.
So that's worth noting.
Now let's get underway and build our gateway.
We start in a typical fashion
using the INT hyphen HTTP namespace
again, that we drew in there in line 12.
And what we're going to do here
is we're going to configure an outbound gateway.
Now, before we go further, I want to make a distinction here
between the inbound gateway and the outbound gateway.
An outbound gateway is, in the HTTP context,
going to be specialized on the client side
which is what we're doing.
We're wanting to send request and receive responses.
That's typical client activity.
An inbound gateway in the INT hyphen HTTP namespace
is what you would use on the server side.
If we were using spring integration
in order to serve our API,
we would use an inbound gateway
to receive requests and produce responses.
That's an important distinction
between the inbound and outbound gateway
here in the HTTP context.
Okay, so we're going to configure an outbound gateway,
and let's do this a piece at a time.
First as we've become accustomed to,
we need to give it a name, an ID rather.
In our case, let's call it API gateway.
And the next thing I want to show you is the reply channel.
The reply channel, we're going to configure
is the very same channel that we were formerly using
in status monitor service, and that is API input channel.
That is the channel that our application is going to be
listening on in order to receive these inputs from the API.
Let's give ourselves a reply timeout
of a very generous five seconds.
Let's give an expected response type,
Java dot lang dot string will do us here.
That's going to be a common one, another common choice
you might end up selecting as a JSON object.
Of course, we need to give a URL.
What the API URL we're calling,
like I mentioned is our internal application local host 9090
and we've got a path API configured
to respond to this call, HTTP method, GET.
Okay, now, here's the interesting part,
is the request channel.
This being a gateway, it's a two way communication.
This gateway expect to send its messages to a channel
and to receive its messages from a channel.
We are going to have to create a new channel
in order to accommodate this need.
And the way we're going to set this up is kind of interesting.
Let's call it a polling signal channel,
which is a curious, sort of name,
and I'm going to explain why we named it that in just a moment.
Okay, that configures our core outbound gateway itself.
So what we're wanting to do here is we're wanting to set up
a poll that spring integration manages all by itself,
that our application doesn't have to manage.
What we need to do is we need to create a request channel
that is specifically designed to trigger the API request.
And the way we're going to do that is
we're going to configure a direct channel,
similar to ones we've used before.
We're going to call this channel polling signal channel.
And that's it, we're giving it no more configuration.
The polling signal channel that we're configuring here
is the request channel that we're calling here
in our gateway, polling signal channel.
Now here's where the polling magic is going to happen.
Again, in the integration namespace,
we're going to configure an inbound channel adapter,
call it our API polar.
And the channel that we're going to be polling
to is the channel we just built, polling signal channel.
And this is an interesting technique
that we haven't done yet.
We're going to spring extension language expression
to create a dummy message.
Stick with me and I'll explain that further.
Let's give our auto startup value here to be false
because we need our application to initialize this
when it's ready.
And this is what we've been driving toward this whole time.
We're going to give this inbound channel adapter a polar.
Let's give it a fixed rate.
How about every three seconds?
Okay, now, let me back up and explain what's happening here.
We've given our inbound channel adapter a polar.
That polar is going to run every three seconds.
And this polar is going to cause our inbound channel adapter
to send a dummy message, while it's a real message
but we're not going to be consuming the message.
It's an empty message, the payload is just an empty string.
That's going to put a message on our polling signal channel,
there in line 16.
And the message being sent on that polling signal channel
will signal our outbound gateway to invoke our API call,
and the response will come back
into the application on the API input channel.
This is the quintessential way to create
a spring integration managed polar for an API service.
Now, finally, this is all the spring integration
configuration we need to do.
Let's get in here and take some
of our scaffolding away that we no longer need.
One of the things I love more than building code
is taking code out that is no longer needed.
We get to take away that utility method.
We get to take away our timer task.
We don't have to start this timer task any longer.
This simulated rest API call, we take out.
It has been moved someplace else.
So all of this scaffolding goes away.
And then here in the dashboard manager,
all we need to do is create a way to start that API polar.
If you'll recall, in line 21 of our XML configuration,
we asked the application to give us
an explicit start for that polar.
So that's what we're doing here in line 64.
Alright, we've taken configuration away.
And let's put a system out message here
on our API return payload.
So we can see something in the console
and let's give it a start.
Starting our application now.
The first thing we should see when we boot up is an error.
What did we get wrong here?
Okay, we have a typo here in our schema URL specification.
I used a hyphen instead of a dot.
Let's correct that and start the app again
and I think that will solve it.
Okay, looks like we have a clean start.
Okay, what we see there in the console
is our API responding with this JSON formatted string.
Now, when we go out to our user interface,
we're going to see like before
in the lower left hand corner for example,
in the power usage grid.
These account credits to date are changing
and those are now coming from a real live HTTP interaction.
So we've built a client side rest API interaction
using an HTTP outbound gateway
and piped the response into our application's
core message flow that we're now seeing
live on the user interface.